# cooper-lab code repository
This repository contains code I have written as part of my work as a graduate research assistant in Dr. Elizabeth Cooper's Lab at UNC Charlotte.  
https://elizcooperlab.com/index.html

Project abstract: 
As climate change continues to impact the adaptation and migration of species to new regions, one of particular concern is the Western Encephalitis Mosquito, Culex tarsalis. This species is one of the most important vectors for diseases such as West Nile Virus and St. Louis Encephalitis that threatens both human and livestock health throughout North America. Currently, Culex tarsalis is not found east of the Mississippi River, but changing climate conditions along with this species' unique patterns of genetic variation across a large range of habitats, pose a threat of continuing expansion eastward.  The goal of this study is to investigate possible environmental factors contributing to the local adaptation of this species and use these factors to create a predictive model using future climate projections to predict migration patterns. We started with whole genome sequencing data for over 300 individuals from different regions of North America and created a pipeline to call significant Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) from these samples. We have seen a strong clustering of individuals based on their geographical location through Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and ADMIXTURE analysis following their predicted origin in the southwest and subsequent migration north and east. Next, we will compare these SNPs with extracted climate data significant to this species' survival and identify where and in what regions of the genome they occur. Finally, a machine learning model will be used to predict the likelihood of future migration patterns of this species, which can be beneficial in preparing for and mitigating their disease spread. Monitoring and predicting the expansion of this dangerous vector species is necessary not only for human health but also for livestock health and disease prevention, which causes a large economic impact for many regions across North America. 
